So finally we reached push notifications.
So those little notifications and messages that show up on your device and prompt you to go to a certain
app in the next lectures, I'll show you how you can integrate push notifications in flutter apps and
how we can, for example, do that in the Flutter app we built over this module.
Now for that, let's first of all understand how push notifications actually work behind the scenes.
We got our application and this application is running on a bunch of devices.
So on the devices of the users who installed our app, now some event occurs, something happens.
For example, a user sends a chat message to another user, or you as the owner of the app maybe wants
to send out a marketing message to all your users or you have a news app and something important happened
and you want to let your users know about that.
These are typical reasons for why you might want to send a push notification, and these are probably
the push notification types, you know, from the apps you're using.
So the natural thing would be that you come up with the message you want to send, the short text you
want to send, for example, and you then send this message somehow to a device.
Yeah, that's roughly how it works.
But the somehow part is important.
You as the app developer or as any developer, can't just directly send a message to a device.
You can't directly send messages to devices that is really important.
Instead, of course, Apple and Google.
So the owners of iOS and Android want to control who's able to send notifications to devices to avoid
abuse and security issues.
And therefore you have to use official push notifications, servers and or protocols.
That means that you can't just go ahead and write your own server side code that directly targets devices.
Instead, you have to use official servers and protocols, and this is required by Google and by Apple
to ensure that only you as the developer of an app can send notifications to users who got your app
installed so that you can't target any other users with any other device that don't even have your app
and that no one else can send messages to your users.
Therefore, these push notification servers or these protocols which you have to use require ID.
So a used app developer needs to kind of link your app to those notification servers and let Google
and Apple know that you plan on using push notifications.
So you have to be very clear here.
Now once all of that is set up and of course, I will show you how that set up works for both Android
and iOS in this module.
So once that is all set up, you can now point your event at such an official push notification server
and draft your message in conjunction with that and let the server know which message should be sent
out to which devices.
And then the server will go ahead and do that for you, and it will then send that message and deliver
that message to the devices you told it to send it to.
This is how push notifications work behind the scenes.
Now, how does this now translate to our Firebase setup, which we have thus far, where we're using
authentication, firestorm, cloud storage, security rules and all those beautiful things we added
over the last lectures.
Well there.
The great thing is that Firebase also has a cloud messaging service which you can use for both Android
and iOS apps.
And for Android apps, you actually have to use it.
There it is.
The official push notification service for Android and for iOS.
You can also use it and it then behind the scenes uses Apple's push notification service.
You could say.
So therefore the Firebase Cloud Messaging Service is a great choice, even if you're otherwise not using
Firebase.
And you don't need to use any other Firebase service to still use Firebase Cloud messaging.
So you can always use the Firebase Push Notification Service for iOS and Android, even if you use no
other Firebase Service, that's really important.
So this Firebase Cloud Messaging Service is an important piece and it nicely works together with the
Firebase Messaging Flutter SDK, which you install in your app, which you use in your app code.
It works together with that to exchange push notifications and they offer Firebase Cloud messaging as
an official push notification server or service integrates nicely into that entire Flutter Firebase
ecosystem.
But again, let me make it clear that you don't need to use any other Firebase Service and that you
also don't need to use Flutter just to use Firebase Cloud Messaging.
You can also use it with other native libraries for Android or iOS apps that don't use Flutter.
But since this is a Flutter course, of course I'll focus on the Flutter integration.
So this is how this will work behind the scenes.
This is what we will use to deliver push notifications to our Flutter app.
And with that, let's see how we get started with that.